Hey, what is going on, everyone?
Let me wish you a huge and warm welcome to the first chapter of this amazing flutter, of course.
Today, I'll be guiding you throughout an introduction en bloc, explaining why I chose Bloch as my
favorite state management library and design better going to the main aspects of it.
And hopefully at the end of the video, you'll have yourself some good reference on why it's an amazing
idea to start a news blog on every project from now on.
So without further ado, let's get right into it.
But first of all, let me ask you a question.
Have you ever had installed an application which started to crash for no reason while using it, an
app perhaps that after you click the button in order to load some data free for three or four seconds
without displaying absolutely any message into the UI or maybe an app which only works with Internet
connection but goes haywire if there is no one available.
I'm assuming that at least for some of you, the answer will be definitely yes.
Then you will know how frustrating it is for a user to not receive a visual representation for any interaction
with the application.
The main problem here is that the code is not clear, organized, maintainable nor testable.
Developers of these apps are thinking about what works for the moment instead of reflecting what would
work in maintaining the app in the long run.
The main idea in programming is that you and your team need to write code using an architecture which
feature the best architecture which can accommodate every feature and scale over time.
Now let me give you a quick story.
In my first weeks of learning flutter and dart from some tutorials online, I wanted to give you a try
and build my own first app by myself.
But eventually, after a couple of days of coding, I was struck by the feeling that I cannot maintain
the code anymore due to the fact that all of it was spread throughout the app randomly.
So there was the moment when I learned the most important lesson.
I have started to look for a way to organize and structure the ideas and features in my code in order
to build an application that will be maintainable and scalable over time in Flutter.
The best way to keep your code organized, clean and maintainable is to have a component which can mediate
what the user sees often referred to as UI front end or presentation and the logic behind it.
This component I'm referring to is, as you may have already guessed, Block, which is an abbreviation
for business logic component.
Generally speaking, Block is a design pattern created by Google to help separate business logic from
the presentation layer and enable developers to reuse code more easily.
There is a state management library created and maintained by Felix Angelov called Block, which helps
developers implement the block design pattern in their flutter applications.
What does this mean actually?
Well, as developers, it's really necessary to know what the state of our app is at any time.
Remember when I said that for every interaction with the app, there should be something displayed on
the screen to let the user know what's going on?
Technically, for every interaction, the application should be in a different state.
For example, when the data is fetching, the app should be in a loading stage displaying a loading
animation on the screen.
When the Internet is off, the application should display a pop up to let the user know that there is
no Internet connection.
This is good app design, thinking of every possible case and having a state emerging from it.
So not only does the Block library separate presentation from business logic, it also simplifies the
way we manage the state of the application.
So after all, by learning block and using the Block library, you'll have the following huge advantages
which will lead you and your team to be better developers.
Block will allow you to have a better understanding of what's happening inside your own app, thus making
it more organized, structured and easier to test and maintain.
There won't be a moment in which you won't know what the state of your app is because of the way block
is built.
For every user interaction, there will be an emerging state making the whole state management issue
simple to overcome and all within a single, stable and powerful block code base.
In the next chapter will start taking a look at every block concepts like streams, blocks and cubits,
while also discussing the difference between them is going to be a really, really important one.
So maybe.
You want to keep it with that being said, I'm looking forward to seeing each and every one of you up
next.
Stay tuned and let us get wicked.